welcome to iconic Fitness calm my name's
Chris head personal trainer and a video
today sorry was a fly my hand video
today is about how to get stronger on
the bike how to get your legs stronger
how to increase your power output how to
increase your endurance how to increase
your strength going up the hills
everything how to increase your whole
cycling ability I guess could be the
title to this video and what I'm going
to talk about today is something that
kind of getting missed by a lot of a lot
of athletes when I train my athletes
when I train anyone who's training for
an endurance event or an era cycling
event be a triathlon or a sport Eve or
sort of a long-distance multi-day
cycling event this is one of the first
things I begin to teach them because
what tends to happen is when they come
to me they want that greater fitness
they want that greater endurance they
want that greater strength and they
think they've got to strengthen up the
legs and where they do have to
strengthen the legs
there's one key component missing which
will only enhance the strength of the
legs it will stop you getting back pain
whilst on the bike if you're on the bike
for a few hours at a time or multi days
at a time and it's to strengthen the
hips and this kinda gets lost the hips
are the powerhouses for the legs the
hips are what starts the pedal stroke
the hips is what gives you your power if
you've got strong hips your power output
will increase because it will only
enhance what your legs are doing and by
increasingly your hip strength you
become a lot more stable in the saddle
and your whole cycling ability goes up I
can't stress this enough to strengthen
your hips if you're doing an exercise
like the squat make sure you're engaging
your hip muscles your glutes your bum
muscles those are the most important
muscles you've got basically in your
legs and they're the ones that you want
to get strong so when you're next
training for another cycling event get
straight into
hips do strengthen your legs I'm not
saying don't strengthen your legs do
something your legs but do strengthen
your hips it is absolutely essential
your person you'll beat your beat your
personal best your power output will go
up your strength to go up your endurance
to go up you'll feel so much more
comfortable in the saddle your back pain
will go down if you have it it is the
most incredible freeing thing you can do
on the bike so yes get to work on
strengthen your hips we doing squats
deadlifts lunges whatever it might be
get those hips engaged okay my name is
Chris from my chronic fitness.com I will
speak soon cheers bye